
=head1 NAME

frecheck - FRE regression check utility

=head1 SYNOPSIS

frecheck [OPTIONS] exp [exp ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<frecheck> runs the B<ardiff> command to compare restart files on the
output produced by B<frerun>-generated runs and prints a report.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Comparison Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-H>, B<--compare-history>

Compare history files, instead of restarts.

=item B<-m>, B<--main>

Compare files from the main producton run, instead of regression tests.

=item B<-e>, B<--effective-date> I << <STRING> >>

Use the date I<< <STRING> >> to directly select restart or history files to compare.

=item B<-X>, B<--exclude> I<< <STRING> >>

Exclude netCDF variables, given in the list I<< <STRING> >>, from the comparison.

=item B<-f>, B<--force>

Force comparing netCDF files even after differences are found.  The
default is to stop the comparison after the first difference.

=item B<-A>, B<--ignore-attributes> I<< <STRING> >>

Ignore netCDF attributes, given in the list I<< <STRING> >>, for all variables.

=item B<-S>, B<--save>

Save all the temporary files created by the B<ardiff> command.

=back

=back


=head2 Restart File Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-s>, B<--start-date> I<< <DATE> >>

Use start date I<< <STRING> >> to override the date from the FRE XML
file.  If this option is not used, then the start date will be looked
for inside following namelists: I<frecheck_nml(start_date)>,
I<coupler_nml(current_date)>, I<ocean_solo_nml(date_init)>,
I<standalone_rad_nml(rad_date)>.  The date in this option must be
valid date string, for example - '20111111' or '11th Nov 2011'.

=item B<-e>, B<--end-date> I<< <STRING> >>

Use end date I<< <STRING> >> to directly select restart files to
compare.  The date in this option must be valid date string (refer to
the B<--start-date> option).

=item B<-R>, B<--list-references>

List reference files from the configuration XML instead of files from
the archive directory.

=item B<-L>, B<--list-long>

List all the restart files in the long format (but don't compare
them).  Including options B<--regression> and B<--unique> will limit
this list to the subset defined by these options.

=item B<-l>, B<--list>

List all the restart files in the short format (but don't compare
them).  Including options B<--regression> and B<--unique> will limit
this list to the subset defined by these options.


=item B<-r>, B<--regression> I<< <STRING> >>

Process only regression tests (comma separated) from the I<< <STRING>
>>.  Valid regression string values are defined in the FRE XML file,
but are usually I<basic>, I<restarts>, I<scaling> are defined. A
regression string of I<suite> is equivalent to I<basic>, I<restarts>,
I<scaling>.  A value of I<all> will check available defined
regressions.  Default: I<all>.

=item B<-u>, B<--unique> I<< <STRING> >>

Process additionally unique runs with numbers from the I<< <STRING>
>>.  I<< <STRING> >> can contain a comma separated list of numbers, or
a range of numbers (e.g. 2-4).  The reserved value I<all> will select
all available unique runs. Default: I<all>.

=item B<-w>, B<--with-references>

Include reference files into comparing.  Negatable, default is 'on'.

=back

=back


=head2 General FRE Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-p>, B<--platform> I<< <PLATFORM> >>

Use this platform from the XML to setup the specific hardware and 
software the experiment was built and run on.  I<< <PLATFORM> >> is
of the form <site>.<software>.  <site> must be one of the following
(ncrc1, ncrc2, gfdl, ...), and <software> can be any descriptive
string (no spaces), or "default".  <site> is dependent on where
B<frecheck> is executed.  Default: <site>.default..

=item B<-t>, B<--target> I<< <STRING> >>

The compilation target.  Predefined targets strings are I<repro>,
I<prod>, I<debug>, I<hdf5> and I<openmp>.  The targets can be combined
using a comma separated list (e.g. prod,openmp).  Default: I<prod>.

The targets I<prod>, I<repro> and I<debug> are mutually exclusive.
Not more than one of these is allowed in the target list.

User defined targets should refer to a <compile> node with the
corresponding value of its target attribute.

=item B<-x>, B<--xmlfile> I<< <xmlFile> >>

Use the XML file defined by I<< <xmlFile> >>.  Default: I<$cwd/rts.xml>.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the version and exit.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Verbose messages.  Option can be repeated to increase the verbosity.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print the usage message and exit.

=item I<exp>

At least one experiment from the I<< <xmlFile> >> must be listed as an argument.

=back

=back




=head1 SEE ALSO

B<ardiff>(1)




=head1 BUGS

=begin man

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>

=end man

=begin html

<p>Report any bugs to
<script type="text/javascript">
   <!--
   var contact = "GFDL's Helpdesk";
   var email = "oar.gfdl.help";
   var emailHost = "noaa.gov";
   document.write("<a href=" + "mail" + "to:" + email + "@" + emailHost + ">" + contact + "</a>" + ".");
   //-->
</script>
</p>

=end html

=begin latex

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <\texttt{oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov}>.

=end latex

=begin mediawiki

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.heml@noaa.gov>

=end mediawiki




=head1 AUTHOR

Designed and written by V. Balaji, Amy Langenhorst and Aleksey Yakovlev




=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory

The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms
of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

=cut
