
=head1 NAME

freinfo extracts various statistics from model stdout files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

freinfo [OPTIONS] [exp ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<freinfo> will extract statistics from the standard out files

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Selection Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-L>, B<--long-list>

List all the stdout files in the long format, and don't process them.

=item B<-l>, B<--list>

List all the stdout files in the short format, and don't process them.

=item B<-m>, B<--main>

Show information about the main run instead of regression tests.

=item B<-r>, B<--regression> I<< <STRING> >>

Process only regression tests from the STRING.  Default is 'all'.

This option value can contain a number of regression labels, separated
by comma.  The reserved value 'all' (which is the default) will select
all available regression labels.

=item B<-u>, B<--unique> I<< <STRING> >>

Process additionally unique runs with numbers from the STRING.  Default is 'all'.

This option value can contain a list of numbers, separated by comma;
ranges are also supported.  The reserved value 'all' (which is the
default) will select all available unique runs.\n",

=back

=back

=head2 General FRE Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-p>, B<--platform> I<< <PLATFORM> >>

Use this platform from the XML to setup the specific hardware and
software the experiment will be built and run on.  I<< <PLATFORM> >> is
of the form <site>.<software>.  <site> must be one of the following
(ncrc1, ncrc2, gfdl, ...), and <software> can be any descriptive
string (no spaces), or "default".  <site> is dependent on where
B<frelist> is executed.  Default: <site>.default.

=item B<-t>, B<--target> I<< <STRING> >>

The compilation target.  Predefined targets strings are I<repro>,
I<prod>, I<debug>, I<hdf5> and I<openmp>.  The targets can be combined
using a comma separated list (e.g. prod,openmp).  Default: I<prod>.

The targets I<prod>, I<repro> and I<debug> are mutually exclusive.
Not more than one of these is allowed in the target list.

User defined targets should refer to a <compile> node with the
corresponding value of its target attribute.

=item B<-x>, B<--xmlfile> I<< <xmlFile> >>

Use the XML file defined by I<< <xmlFile> >>.  Default: F<$cwd/rts.xml>.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Verbose messages.  Option can be repeated to increase the verbosity.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the version and exit.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print the usage message and exit.

=item I<exp>

Experiment from the I<< <xmlfile> >>.  If no experiment is given, the
all experiments will be processed.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 BUGS

=begin man

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>

=end man

=begin html

<p>Report any bugs to 
<script type="text/javascript">
   <!--
   var contact = "GFDL's Helpdesk";
   var email = "oar.gfdl.help";
   var emailHost = "noaa.gov";
   document.write("<a href=" + "mail" + "to:" + email + "@" + emailHost + ">" + contact + "</a>" + ".");
   //-->
</script>
</p>

=end html

=begin latex

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <\texttt{oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov}>.

=end latex

=begin mediawiki

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.heml@noaa.gov>

=end mediawiki

=head1 AUTHOR

Designed and written by V. Balaji, Amy Langenhorst and Aleksey Yakovlev

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory

The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms
of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

=cut
