
=head1 NAME

frelist - Lists experiments and other information from a FRE XML file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

frelist [OPTIONS] [exp ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<frelist> will list experiments and experiment configuration from a
FRE XML file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Display Configuration Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-D>, B<--description>

Include experiment descriptions.  All description texts from the
<description> tag is printed as-is, without any formatting.

=item B<-d>, B<--directory> I<< <STRING> >>

List experiment directories with types.  The I<< <STRING> >> is
required and can be a single value, or comma separated list.  Possible
values are: I<root>, I<src>, I<exec>, I<scripts>, I<stdout>,
I<stdoutTmp>, I<state>, I<work>, I<ptmp>, I<stmp>, I<archive>,
I<postProcess>, I<analysis> and I<all>.  Default: I<all>

=item B<-e>, B<--evaluate> I<< <STRING> >>

Print various experiment information using an XPath expression,
following inherits.  The XPath expression syntax isn't verified by the
frelist, the expression is just evaluated.  The I<< <STRING> >> should
be enclosed by single quotes "'" to keep the shell from attempt to
expand the expression.  Example: --evaluate
'input/dataFile[@label="gridSpec"]'

=item B<-E>, B<--executable>

Print the executable path that an experiment would use.  This option
also outputs the experiment, where this executable is predefined or
should be built by default.

=item B<-i>, B<--[no]-inherit>

Print any inherits a experiment may have.

=item B<-N>, B<--namelist>

Print all the namelists with all substitutions and overrides and exit.

=item B<-S>, B<--platform-csh>

Print any user defined c-shell code in <csh> tag that corresponds to
the --platform option.  All the global and platform-level properties
will be expanded.  This option ignores all the experiment names on the
command line.

=item B<-P>, B<--postfix>

List all the regression runs with their labels, run numbers and postfixes.

=item B<-r>, B<--regression> I<< <STRING> >>

Use regression tests STRING (usable for --postfix and --namelist options only).

=item B<-R>, B<--remote-user> I<< <STRING> >>

Define a user id, which should be used in directories, listed by the
--directory option.  Useful to display a remote site configuration
where a user's username may be different.

=item B<-C>, B<--validate>

Validate a FRE XML against the XML schema.

=item B<-X>, B<--Xml>

Print the entire FRE XML file to standard out, expanding all XML
properties.  The XML file printed will only contain a single platform.
This option ignores all the experiment names on the command line.

=back

=back

=head2 General FRE Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-p>, B<--platform> I<< <PLATFORM> >>

Use this platform from the XML to setup the specific hardware and
software the experiment will be built and run on.  I<< <PLATFORM> >> is
of the form <site>.<software>.  <site> must be one of the following
(ncrc1, ncrc2, gfdl, ...), and <software> can be any descriptive
string (no spaces), or "default".  <site> is dependent on where
B<frelist> is executed.  Default: <site>.default.

=item B<-t>, B<--target> I<< <STRING> >>

The compilation target.  Predefined targets strings are I<repro>,
I<prod>, I<debug>, I<hdf5> and I<openmp>.  The targets can be combined
using a comma separated list (e.g. prod,openmp).  Default: I<prod>.

The targets I<prod>, I<repro> and I<debug> are mutually exclusive.
Not more than one of these is allowed in the target list.

User defined targets should refer to a <compile> node with the
corresponding value of its target attribute.

=item B<-x>, B<--xmlfile> I<< <xmlFile> >>

Use the XML file defined by I<< <xmlFile> >>.  Default: F<$cwd/rts.xml>.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Verbose messages.  Option can be repeated to increase the verbosity.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the version and exit.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print the usage message and exit.

=item I<exp>

Experiment from the I<< <xmlfile> >>.  If no experiment is given, the
all experiments will be processed.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head1 BUGS

=begin man

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>

=end man

=begin html

<p>Report any bugs to 
<script type="text/javascript">
   <!--
   var contact = "GFDL's Helpdesk";
   var email = "oar.gfdl.help";
   var emailHost = "noaa.gov";
   document.write("<a href=" + "mail" + "to:" + email + "@" + emailHost + ">" + contact + "</a>" + ".");
   //-->
</script>
</p>

=end html

=begin latex

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <\texttt{oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov}>.

=end latex

=begin mediawiki

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.heml@noaa.gov>

=end mediawiki

=head1 AUTHOR

Designed and written by V. Balaji, Amy Langenhorst and Aleksey Yakovlev

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory

The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms
of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

=cut
