
=head1 NAME

fremake - checkout and create a shell script to compile the source from
a FRE experiment XML.




=head1 SYNOPSIS

fremake [OPTIONS] exp [exp ...]




=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<fremake> uses the experiment description from a FRE XML file to
checkout the code (from CVS or git) required to run the experiment.
B<fremake> will then create a C-shell script to build the experiment
executable.




=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Checkout Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-f>, B<--force-checkout>

Checkout a fresh version of the source code.  B<fremake> will move the
current source directory before performing the source checkout.

Without this option, if the source directory already exists,
B<fremake> will compare the I<checkout.csh> file to see if it matches
what would be checked out.

=back

=back




=head2 Compile Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-F>, B<--force-compile>

Recreate the compile script.  This is useful if the experiment suite
configuration file is updated.  B<--force-compile> will move the
existing compile script out of the way (adding a time stamp), and will
then clean the build directory before recreating the new compile
script (unless B<--keep-compiled> is also used).  Without this option,
an error will occur if the configuration file has changed.

=item B<-K>, B<--keep-compiled>

Keep the compiled files in the executable directory.

=item B<-L>, B<--[no-]link>

Control whether or not the compile script will perform the linking
stage of the build.  Linking is done by default.

=item B<-j>, B<--make-jobs> I<< <NUM> >>

The maximum value of concurrent compiles B<make> will perform.  (See
B<make>(1) for more information.)

=item B<-n>, B<--ncores> I<< <NUM> >>

Number of cores to reserve when submitting the compile script to a
queuing system.  Default is 8.

=back

=back




=head2 Submit / Execute Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-E>, B<--execute>

Execute the compile script in the current terminal session.

=item B<-w>, B<--walltime> I<< <NUM> >>

Maximum queue wall time to use (in minutes).  Default: 120.

=item B<-s>, B<--submit>

Submit the script as a batch job.

=back

=back



=head2 General FRE Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-p>, B<--platform> I<< <PLATFORM> >>

Use this platform from the XML to setup the specific hardware and
software the experiment will be built and run on.  I<< <PLATFORM> >> is
of the form <site>.<software>.  <site> must be one of the following
(ncrc1, ncrc2, gfdl, ...), and <software> can be any descriptive
string (no spaces), or "default".  <site> is dependent on where
B<fremake> is executed.  Default: <site>.default.

=item B<-t>, B<--target> I<< <STRING> >>

The compilation target.  Predefined targets strings are I<repro>,
I<prod>, I<debug>, I<hdf5> and I<openmp>.  The targets can be combined
using a comma separated list (e.g. prod,openmp).  Default: I<prod>.

The targets I<prod>, I<repro> and I<debug> are mutually exclusive.
Not more than one of these is allowed in the target list.

User defined targets should refer to a <compile> node with the
corresponding value of its target attribute.

=item B<-x>, B<--xmlfile> I<< <xmlFile> >>

Use the XML file defined by I<< <xmlFile> >>.  Default: F<$cwd/rts.xml>.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Verbose messages.  Option can be repeated to increase the verbosity.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the version and exit.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print the usage message and exit.

=item I<exp>

At least one experiment from the I<< <xmlFile> >> must be listed as an
argument.  Run B<frelist> to get a list of available experiments.

=back

=back



=head1 SEE ALSO

B<frelist>(1), B<cvs>(1), B<make>(1)




=head1 BUGS

=begin man

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>

=end man

=begin html

<p>Report any bugs to 
<script type="text/javascript">
   <!--
   var contact = "GFDL's Helpdesk";
   var email = "oar.gfdl.help";
   var emailHost = "noaa.gov";
   document.write("<a href=" + "mail" + "to:" + email + "@" + emailHost + ">" + contact + "</a>" + ".");
   //-->
</script>
</p>

=end html

=begin latex

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <\texttt{oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov}>.

=end latex

=begin mediawiki

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.heml@noaa.gov>

=end mediawiki




=head1 AUTHORS

Designed and written by V. Balaji, Amy Langenhorst and Aleksey Yakovlev




=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory

The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms
of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

=cut
