
=head1 NAME

frepriority - Implements jobs control for FRE production runs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

frepriority [OPTIONS] args

=head1 DESCRIPTION

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Job Info / Control Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-I>, B<--info> 

Report on the current state of the simulation.  This report contains
information about the job's chain and some scheduler resource
settings.

=item B<-m>, B<--main>

Process or don't process the main run.  Negatable, default is on.

=item B<-A>, B<--project> I<< <STRING> >>

Set the project (account) to I<< <STRING> >> for all remaining jobs.
Projects are used to control resource allocation between groups of
users.

=item B<-R>, B<--resume>

Set a currently running job to continue.  The flag to resume is
checked at the beginning and the end of the job, and
between each job segment.

=item B<-S>, B<--suspend>

Set a currently running job to not continue after the current segment.
The flag to suspend is checked at the beginning and the end of the
job, and between each job segment.

=item B<-u>, B<--unique> I<< <STRING> >>

Process additionally unique runs with numbers from the I<< <STRING> >>.

=item B<-W>, B<--windfall>

Set or unset the windfall flag.  Negatable, default is off.

=back

=back

=head2 General FRE Options

=over 5

=over 8

=item B<-p>, B<--platform> I<< <PLATFORM> >>

Use this platform from the XML to setup the specific hardware and
software the experiment will be built and run on.  I<< <PLATFORM> >> is
of the form <site>.<software>.  <site> must be one of the following
(ncrc1, ncrc2, gfdl, ...), and <software> can be any descriptive
string (no spaces), or "default".  <site> is dependent on where
B<frepriority> is executed.  Default: <site>.default.

=item B<-t>, B<--target> I<< <STRING> >>

The compilation target.  Predefined targets strings are I<repro>,
I<prod>, I<debug>, I<hdf5> and I<openmp>.  The targets can be combined
using a comma separated list (e.g. prod,openmp).  Default: I<prod>.

The targets I<prod>, I<repro> and I<debug> are mutually exclusive.
Not more than one of these is allowed in the target list.

User defined targets should refer to a <compile> node with the
corresponding value of its target attribute.

=item B<-x>, B<--xmlfile> I<< <xmlFile> >>

Use the XML file defined by I<< <xmlFile> >>.  Default: F<$cwd/rts.xml>.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Verbose messages.  Option can be repeated to increase the verbosity.

=item B<-V>, B<--version>

Print the version and exit.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print the usage message and exit.

=item I<exp>

At least one experiment from the I<< <xmlFile> >> must be listed as an
argument.  Run B<frelist> to get a list of available experiments.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

System's Resource Manager Documentation

=head1 BUGS

=begin man

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>.

=end man

=begin html

<p>Report any bugs to 
<script type="text/javascript">
   <!--
   var contact = "GFDL's Helpdesk";
   var email = "oar.gfdl.help";
   var emailHost = "noaa.gov";
   document.write("<a href=" + "mail" + "to:" + email + "@" + emailHost + ">" + contact + "</a>" + ".");
   //-->
</script>
</p>

=end html

=begin latex

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <\texttt{oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov}>.

=end latex

=begin mediawiki

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.heml@noaa.gov>.

=end mediawiki

=head1 AUTHOR

Designed and written by V. Balaji, Amy Langenhorst and Aleksey Yakovlev

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory

The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms
of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

=cut
