
=head1 NAME

fretransform - Modify the directory locations in a FRE XML for use with frerts

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fretransform [OPTIONS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<fretransform> will modify the FRE directory locations in a FRE XML
for use with the B<frerts> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 8

=item B<-d>, B<--datestr> I<< <STRING> >>

Use I<< <STRING> >> instead of the standard date string (YYYYMMDD_HHMMSS) in the directory name.

=item B<-p>, B<--platform> I<< <PLATFORM> >>

Use this platform from the XML to setup the specific hardware and
software the experiment will be built and run on.  I<< <PLATFORM> >> is
of the form <site>.<software>.  <site> must be one of the following
(ncrc1, ncrc2, gfdl, ...), and <software> can be any descriptive
string (no spaces), or "default".  <site> is dependent on where
B<fretransform> is executed.  Default: <site>.default.

=item B<-x>, B<--xmlfile> I<< <xmlFile> >>

Use the XML file defined by I<< <xmlFile> >>.  Default: F<$cwd/rts.xml>.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Print the usage message and exit.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<frerts>(1)

=head1 BUGS

=begin man

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>.

=end man

=begin html

<p>Report any bugs to 
<script type="text/javascript">
   <!--
   var contact = "GFDL's Helpdesk";
   var email = "oar.gfdl.help";
   var emailHost = "noaa.gov";
   document.write("<a href=" + "mail" + "to:" + email + "@" + emailHost + ">" + contact + "</a>" + ".");
   //-->
</script>
</p>

=end html

=begin latex

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <\texttt{oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov}>.

=end latex

=begin mediawiki

Report any bugs to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.heml@noaa.gov>.

=end mediawiki

=head1 AUTHOR

Designed and written by Amy Langenhorst.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory

The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms
of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any
later version.

FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
for more details.

=cut
