.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "ARDIFF" "1" "08/01/2012" "FRE Bronx" "FRE Utility"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
ardiff \- utility for diffing cpio or tar archives containing netcdf files and text files
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
ls \-1 <ARCHIVE_FILES> | ardiff [OPTIONS]
ardiff < <ARCHIVE_FILE_LIST>
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBardiff\fR takes a list of \fB.cpio or \fR.tar files as input. It extracts them into a temporary folder and compares the files in the first archive to the corresponding files in the second archive. It then compares the first archive to the third, etc.
.sp
\fBardiff\fR compares first with \fBcmp\fR, and if that fails, it uses the \fBnccmp\fR utility written by Remik Ziemlinski.
.sp
By default, \fBardiff\fR calls \fBnccmp\fR with the options \fI\-mdq\fR (compare metadata, data, and quiet).
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.SS "ARDIFF Specific Options"
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Save the temporary directory containing the restart files extracted for the archives.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fI<COPY_TOOL>\fR
Set the tool used to copy files. Default:
\fBgcp\fR.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Quiet run. Do not print
\fBcpio\fR/\fBtar\fR
warnings.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Print the usage message and exit.
.TP
\fI<ARCHIVE_FILES>\fR
A space separated list of
\fB.cpio or \fR.tar files to compare.
.TP
\fI<ARCHIVE_FILE_LIST>\fR
A file containing a list of
\fB.cpio or \fR.tar files to compare.
.SS "NCCMP Controlling Options"
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Forcefully compare archives, do not stop after the first difference.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR
Compare global NetCDF attributes.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR \fIvar1[,\&...]\fR
Compare variable(s)
\fIvar1[,\&...]\fR
only.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fIvar1[,\&...]\fR
Exclude variable(s)
\fIvar1[,\&...]\fR.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR \fIatt1[,\&...]\fR
Ignore attribute(2)
\fIatt1[,\&...]\fR. for all variables.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBtar\fR(1), \fBcpio\fR(1), \fBnccmp \-h\fR, \fBcmp\fR(1), \fBgcp\fR(1)
.sp
.SH "BUGS"
Send bug reports to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>.
.sp
.SH "AUTHORS"
Designed and written by Amy Langenhorst.
.sp
.SH "COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE"
Copyright 2000\-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
.sp
The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.sp
FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.sp
