.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "FRERTS.CSH" "1" "08/01/2012" "FRE Bronx" "FRE Utility"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
frerts.csh \- Creates and runs frerts scripts.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
frerts.csh [OPTIONS] exp [exp \&...]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBfrerts.csh\fR will create and run frerts scripts for a given FRE XML, with a given platform, target, and list of experiments.
.sp
To run a suite of XMLs, platforms, targes, and experiments see \fBfrerts_batch.csh\fR(1).
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fI<xmlFile>\fR
Use the XML file defined by <xmlFile>.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fI<PLATFORM>\fR
Use this platform from the XML to setup the specific hardware and software the experiment will be built and run on.
\fI<PLATFORM>\fR
is of the form <site>.<software>. <site> must be one of the following (ncrc1, ncrc2, gfdl, \&...), and <software> can be any descriptive string (no spaces), or "default". <site> is dependent on where B<fremake> is executed. Default: <site>.default.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fI<TARGET>\fR
The compilation target. Predefined targets strings are
\fIrepro\fR,
\fIprod\fR,
\fIdebug\fR,
\fIhdf5\fR
and
\fIopenmp\fR. The targets can be combined using a comma separated list (e.g. prod,openmp). Default:
\fIprod\fR.
The targets \fIprod\fR, \fIrepro\fR and \fIdebug\fR are mutually exclusive. Not more than one of these is allowed in the target list.
.sp
User defined targets should refer to a <compile> node with the corresponding value of its target attribute.
.sp
.TP
\fB\-\-compile\fR
Optionally compile if passed.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fI<LIB_EXPERIMENT_NAME>\fR
The experiment that contains required libraries.
.TP
\fB\-\-build_only\fR
Optionally do only the compilation and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-all\fR
Optionally run all the experiments in the xml that do not contain "noRTS" in their name.
.TP
\fB\-\-no_rts\fR
Optionally run only the "basic" regression and do not run the "rts" regression.
.TP
\fB\-\-no_stage\fR
Optionally do not stage the data and use "frerun \-s" (assumes the data is pre\-staged to ptmp)
.TP
\fB\-\-fre_version\fR _<FRE_VERSION>
Specify the FRE version.
.TP
\fB\-\-fre_ops\fR \fI<FRERUN_OPTS>\fR
Optionally passes a list of options to
\fBfrerun\fR. The
\fI<FRERUN_OPTS>\fR
is a semicolon separated list of
\fBfrerun\fR
options (see
\fBfrerun\fR(1) for available options).
.TP
\fB\-\-dry_run\fR
Do not submit any jobs, just print the
\fBfrerun\fR
commands
\fBfrerts.csh\fR
will execute.
.TP
\fIexp\fR
Experiment from the
\fI<xmlFile>\fR. Run
\fBfrelist\fR
to get a list of available experiments.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBfrelist\fR(1), \fBfrerun\fR(1), \fBfrerts_batch.csh\fR(1)
.sp
.SH "BUGS"
Send bug reports to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>.
.sp
.SH "AUTHORS"
Designed and written by Niki Zadeh.
.sp
.SH "COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE"
Copyright 2011\-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
.sp
The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.sp
FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.sp
