.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "FRERTS_BATCH.CSH" "1" "08/01/2012" "FRE Bronx" "FRE Utility"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
frerts_batch.csh \- Creates and runs frerts scripts.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
frerts_batch.csh [OPTIONS] exp [exp \&...]
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBfrerts_batch.csh\fR will create and run a suite of frerts scripts for a list of FRE XML's with a list of platforms, targets and list of experiments.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fI<XML_DIRECTORY>\fR
Directory that contains the XMLs. Defaults:
\fI$cwd\fR.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fI<xmlFile_LIST>\fR
Comma separated list of XML files to use.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fI<PLATFORM_LIST>\fR
Comma separated list of platforms. See description of
\fI\-p\fR
in
\fBfrerts.csh\fR(1).
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fI<TARGET_LIST>\fR
Comma separated list of targets. See description of
\fI\-t\fR
in
\fBfrerts.csh\fR(1).
.TP
*\-\-frerts_ops \fI<FRERTS_OPTIONS>\fR
Comma separated list of
\fBfrerts.csh\fR
options. See
\fBfrerts.csh\fR(1) for available options.
.TP
\fIexp\fR
Experiment from the
\fI<xmlFile>\fR. Run
\fBfrelist\fR
to get a list of available experiments.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBfrelist\fR(1), \fBfrerts.csh\fR(1)
.sp
.SH "BUGS"
Send bug reports to GFDL's Helpdesk <oar.gfdl.help@noaa.gov>.
.sp
.SH "AUTHORS"
Designed and written by Niki Zadeh.
.sp
.SH "COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE"
Copyright 2011\-2012 Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
.sp
The Flexible Modeling System (FMS) is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it and are expected to follow the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.sp
FMS is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
.sp
