# Bronx-12 Release Notes

## Features
* **New FRE include directory and include directory transfer**. A new FRE directory `includeDir` is defined at all sites and is transferred by the `output.stager` from remote sites to GFDL. The goal is to standardize the referencing of AWG and OWG include files (e.g. diag tables, data tables, analysis scripts) within the XML and normalize the transfer process currently done within csh blocks. See [feature documentation](/docs/run/include_dir.md).
* **Analysis validation suite**. Not a FRE feature per se, but a tool to check expected output of analysis scripts. See [feature documentation](/docs/analysis/validation.md).
* **Namelist partial inheritance/override feature (experimental)**. Allows a child experiment's namelist to partially inherit from its ancestor namelist. Note: This behavior is limited to one level, see the [feature documentation](/docs/run/namelist_override.md) for more information.
* **First-year check part of frerun**. Users have been running a home-dir script to check whether it is the first year of the simulation, and setting a namelist variable accordingly. Now `frerun` has been updated to check for the first year and set the runscript shell variable $adjust_dry_mass to ".true." for the users on the first year, otherwise this value is ".false.".
	* Action Items for Users:
		* Update XML to remove Larry's script: `/ncrc/home1/Larry.Horowitz/bin/adjust_dry_mass.csh` or the equivalent logic and replace with $adjust_dry_mass
		* No adverse impacts if not removed from the user's XML
* **Native Scalar Diagnostics**: The scalar diagnostics have been subsumed into `frepp` and will run automatically if an experiment is ingested into the Curator database. These values are stored in the centralized MySQL database and out of the user's home directory.

## CMIP6 features and adjustments
**frepp**
* Calls `split_ncvars` with CMIP compliant flag if postprocess component contains attribute `cmip=yes|true|on`. 
	* Action Items for Users:
		* Set `cmip` attribute for postprocessing components that will be published for CMIP6. e.g.
```
    <component type="atmos_cmip" source="atmos_month_cmip" sourceGrid="atmos-cubedsphere" xyInterp="180,288" cmip="yes">
```
* Adjustment to handle case where `fregrid` produces no output due to all fields being unregriddable. Note that if there are no temporal fields to process, the frepp runscript will give a "No usable variables exist" error as before.
* Before generating a fregrid remap file, frepp will check whether a suitable remap file exists in a new shared FMS location. The reason for this is that remap files for ¼ degree tripolar can't be generated by ppan `fregrid`, so we generate them on gaea and store them in the FMS location.
	* Action Items for Users:
		* If you find `fregrid` unable to create a remap file on ppan (in stdout log, "FATAL Error: nxgrid is greater than MAXXGRID/nthreads, increase MAXXGRID, decrease nthreads, or increase number of MPI ranks"),
			* please open a Help Desk ticket and Modeling Systems will generate an appropriate remap file and save to the shared location, or
			* you may create a fregrid remap file on gaea yourself and reference it in your XML
				1. Find the gridSpec tarfile used by your experiment and untar it in $CTEMP
				2. Start an interactive batch session: `msub -I -l walltime=1:00:00,size=5`
				2. `aprun -n 120 fregrid_parallel --input_mosaic ocean_mosaic.nc --remap_file fregrid_remap_file_360_by_180.nc --nlon 360 --nlat 180
				3. Copy remap file to GFDL
				4. Tell frepp to use the remap file:
```
<component type="ocean" source="ocean_monthly" sourceGrid="ocean-tripolar" xyInterp="360,180">
<dataFile label="xyInterpRegridFile">
<dataSource site="gfdl">"/path/to/fregrid_remap_file_360_by_180.nc"</dataSource>
</dataFile>
```
* Don't regrid ocean_geometry history files or certain known non-regriddable fields

**fregrid**
* To preserve CMIP-compliant variable metadata, 0 and 1-dimension variables will be copied to regridded output. As before, unregriddable fields (i.e. those with attribute `interp_method=none`) will not be copied or regridded.
* If all requested regridded fields are unregriddable, returns 0.

**split_ncvars**
* Only coordinate variables used by the individual variable are copied to the output files.
* Support for *formula_terms* attribute. Static variables in the input file listed in *formula_terms* are included in the output file, otherwise are listed in global attribute *external_variables*
* Removal of degenerate *scalar_axis* dimension (typically included in near surface history files)
* Coordinate variable *heightN* is changed to *height* and *plevX* is changed to *plev*
* A CMIP option makes axis attributes CMIP-compliant and omits FMS-style time average attributes

## Adjustments
**fremake/frerun**
* To prepare for upcoming software updates to C4, **`fremake` and `frerun` now require full platform specification** (i.e. --platform ncrc4.intel16 rather than --platform intel16). Users may now submit fremake and frerun jobs to either C3 or C4 from any gaea head node.
* NCRC sites now use `-l nodes=\d+` for all queues

**frerun**
* `output.stager` updated to allow handling of unstructured grid land history files. Will decompress the land unstructured grid files before combining.
* Only validate the publicMetadata tags for CMIP experiments, these tags will otherwise be ignored by schema validation.

**frepp**
* Change of job dependencies from $PBS_JOBID to $MOAB_JOBID to support MOAB upgrade from 7 to 9.
* Slight optimization to using compressed netCDF4 files (experimental). frepp will generate compressed NetCDF4 output if the history files are compressed. Generate compressed NetCDF4 history output (compression level 2 and shuffle) using frerun -Z.
* Only validate the publicMetadata tags for CMIP experiments, these tags will otherwise be ignored by schema validation.

## Fixes
**fremake**
* Fixed user messages referencing outdated CVS source control system

**frerun**
* `output.stager` properly combines icebergs including for ensemble regression runs
* Resource specification-related runscript template shell variables are now added to the runscript even for non-coupled runs.

**frepp**
* Full support for the `--plus` option. The plus option specifies a range of years for frepp processing, i.e. for `-t YYYY --plus N`, produce products and analysis between YYYY and YYYY+N. Previously, the plus option required a 1-year chunksize or a refineDiag script as a placeholder to call the next year's frepp, and so was partially supported/deprecated. Now, the `--plus` option should work in all cases and is a supported way to re-process a range of years.
* Frepp only submits analysis script when ending analysis time is equal to the time passed by the `-t <time>` option. This was done to address an occasional problem where frepp processing on a chunk boundary would take longer than the next year's frepp job. The next year's frepp job would complete, kick off analysis scripts including for the previous year, which would obviously fail since the first year's postprocessing isn't complete. When the first year's frepp calls its analysis scripts, they are already generated, so frepp skips them. The result is missing analysis figures, which this adjustment will fix.
* frepp option -W to modify the job wallclock time is now used in all cases, which may be helpful for high-resolution postprocessing.
* Fix to expand which users can use /ptmp on GFDL sites.
* More flexible parsing of timeseries chunk length units (`<timeSeries chunkLength=Xunits>`), allowing *mo*, *mon*, *month*, and *months*, and *y*, *yr*, and *years*.

**fremake/frerun**
* Check to see if `<platform>/<project>` appears invalid (i.e. YOUR_GROUP_LETTER), and have fremake/frerun give an error (rather than have job mysteriously blocked).
* A user's group is checked to determine directory write privileges. Previously only the user's primary group was checked; now all the groups are checked.

**freppcheck**
* Now appropriately checks for output associated with min or max fields. (If a diagTable-requested maximum field ends in `max`, freppcheck would check for a field ending in `_max` unless the field already ended in `_max`. However if the field ended in `_MAX`, freppcheck would look for `_MAX_max`. This fixes the case-sensitive problem.)

**XML**
* XML schema now understands averageOf attribute in the <timeSeries> XML tag.
* Forbid experiment names that contain + (FRE uses + as a template filler)

## XML Changes
* Retirement of deprecated `<cubictoLatLon>` tag used for regridding cubed sphere model output to at Lat/Lon grid.
	* Action Item for Users:
		* Remove instances of cubicToLatLon="none"
		* Replace instances of cubicToLatLon"x,y" with xyInterp="x,y"
		* sourceGrid is mandatory if an xyInterp is specified within the component.

* New cmip attribute within `<postProcess>/<component>` tag, to make axis attributes CMIP compliant and omit FMS-style time average attributes.
	* Action Items for Users:
		* Set cmip attribute for postprocessing components that will be published for CMIP6. e.g.
```
<component type="atmos_cmip" source="atmos_month_cmip" sourceGrid="atmos-cubedsphere" xyInterp="180,288" cmip="yes">
```
* PublicMetadata XML Change to support CMIP6 global metadata.
    * Action Items for Users:
        * Make sure that all of your publicMetadata tags are correctly set if you’re running a CMIP6 experiment. For more information, visit the [schema documentation](http://cobweb.gfdl.noaa.gov/~pcmdi/CMIP6_Curator/xml_documentation/index.html). 

## Documentation
* [New document on frepp hole filling capabilities](/docs/postProcess/holeFilling.md)
* New document on guidance/best practices for XML xincludes

## Known issues
* freppcheck will incorrectly report missing output due to unregriddable fields
	* No Bronx fix is planned for this issue, as it requires pulling history from archive.
